how's it going you sexy beast today
we'll be discussing the basics of firing
your weapon there's a few mechanics set
within how guns handle and some of those
seems to be a little hidden from when
you first get your hands on a rifle in
planetside 2 this video will be short
and sweet and cover the basics of weapon
handling and a little bit on bullet drop
for snipers and its current state bullet
drop will not have any effect on
soldiers engaging up to a hundred and
fifty meters while aiming at the upper
torso of an enemy meaning bullet drop
only has a substantial presence when
sniping at extreme ranges so let's go
ahead and step from the first of two
major weapon handling mechanics cone of
fire this mechanic defines how wide of a
firing arc your weapon has while
shooting the more you move or shoot the
wider your crosshair becomes as well as
your cone of fire a few ways to reduce
your cone of fire could be by standing
still slowing your movement crouching or
by firing in bursts each weapon in the
game has a cone of fire blue modifier
meaning each gun will cause your
crosshair to flare out at varying rates
the more you shoot this means that
firing fully automatically will make
your crosshair does your cone of fire
fly out at its maximum rate halting your
fire for just a split second will make
your cone of fire reset back to its
smallest position returning your full
accuracy to you generally speaking
firing in bursts of five to eight rounds
will keep your cone of fire as minimal
as possible to keep the rounds hitting
your intended target but the other
mechanic to firing your weapon is the
pretty obvious one recoil for every
round fired your weapon will kick back
and your soldiers shoulder causing the
muzzle the weapon to drift vertically
while also bouncing side to side this is
a pretty easy mechanic to grasp but
rather difficult to master while firing
your weapon simply pull down your mouse
to compensate for the vertical pull of
the weapons muzzle recoil is classified
in both vertical and horizontal drift we
can work pretty easily with the vertical
part but it's the horizontal one that
will be a pain in the ass only way we
can alleviate horizontal recoil is
through the use of a forward grip
attachment on your weapon as there is no
way to determine how horizontal recoil
will affect your weapon for every shot
fire
another aspect of weapons is a first
shot recoil multiplier this means that
for every first bullet fired poor or
pull the trigger your weapon will kick a
bit harder than the following bullets
this is in place to prevent
semi-automatic fire from being too
terribly powerful compared to fully
automatic so with this in mind we can
assume that burst firing would be the
best for combat as it's a perfect blend
of both worlds now that we know how both
of these mechanics operate separately
it's time to blend them together and
learn how to handle weapons in some real
combat while you're caught in a
firefight I'm sure it'll be pretty hard
to remember when to let go the trigger
and I sometimes get that to just keep it
in the back your head that you'll be
getting more kills if you're firing just
a few less bullets when you engage an
enemy firing bursts of about five
bullets per pull of the trigger as will
keep your cone of fire from flaring out
too far while also only giving you a
small bit of vertical recoil to
compensate for as well on to the sniper
rifles currently bullet drop is very
miniscule but it's still enough to be
factored into a sniper's shot these
shots are taken with a 12 times
magnification scope which is personally
the best scope to be used on our exes
upon aiming down the site you'll be
zoomed into the scope and will be
presented with a crosshair these two
lines both have little dots on them
called mil dots each dot represents a
distance that is measured for how far a
bullet will change its trajectory over
time the vertical mill dots are all that
world be worried about as wind is not a
factor in planetside 2 how will not
cause rounds to deviate horizontally
with that said each mil dot is zeroed in
to be about a hundred and seventy five
meters while using be 12 times scope
realistically we won't ever use any more
than about two mil dots as sniping at
anything past 400 meters isn't viable
nor will any be soldiers even render
past that distance so press Q to spot
your target once you've got them in your
crosshairs open the map right click
where their arrow pops up and set a
marker this will allow you to accurately
gauge the distance between you and your
target without revealing yourself by
firing a shot before hand the more you
play with the sniper rifles and get a
hold of our axis is gravity then you'll
be able to snipe you fishing
without having to gauge with the map
since bolt action sniper rifles are the
go-to weapons of mental traders you'll
be wanting to get that first shot to be
the killing blue that's all I got for
you now you sexy beasts I hope you
enjoyed this back to basics video if you
did please give it a thumbs up and I'll
continue to make some more I got plenty
more in the pipeline coming in right now
as for the Empire specific rocket
launchers Matt higbee himself said that
there might be a couple of changes so
i'm holding off on reviewing those quite
yet it will be coming here in this
coming here soon some shotguns will be
coming as well I will be doing a medic
certified badass video later down as
well and that's about it if you did like
this video please give it a thumbs up
and if you would like to see more
mechanics like this to be explained in
detail let me know in the comment
section below want to see more videos
like this go ahead and subscribe it's
free
you